Belis Aladag: So we're going to be seeing Colonel Peterson.
Belis Aladag: I checked his cures and it looks like he was given
Belis Aladag: Diazepam
Belis Aladag: five milligrams on the 27th of March, Dr. Elson
Belis Aladag: Hello carnal.
Conall Pederson: Hello.
Belis Aladag: Did they say that right as a carnal.
Conall Pederson: Yeah, you did actually what I'm impressed.
Belis Aladag: Hahaha I thought about it for a second.
Belis Aladag: I do is, like, I know, um, how are you
Conall Pederson: I'm great. How are you
Belis Aladag: I'm good. So I'm Dr. Allah DAG and I'll be taking care of you.
Belis Aladag: I understand you're with us. You came to us asking for help for
Belis Aladag: Your opioid
Conall Pederson: Issue right
Belis Aladag: Yeah. So can you tell me some background on that.
Belis Aladag: Um, yeah, everything started for you, you're
Conall Pederson: 19 now.
Conall Pederson: Yeah. So I started, um, right before I turned 19 basically like early, early January. Okay.
Conall Pederson: Um, as start off, they were
Conall Pederson: Faster best on them was the they were
Conall Pederson: Blues.
Conall Pederson: Okay, I don't know. That's so their third they're there. They were perk. These are percocet 30
Okay.
Conall Pederson: So, but
Belis Aladag: Taking then after
Conall Pederson: January, and I started off probably like three a day and then that pretty quickly progressed to like seven okay like there was a by the middle of January to all the February has taken basically every two hours. I think one every two hours, and I found out that they were fentanyl
Belis Aladag: Oh, Lord.
Conall Pederson: Okay, yeah.
Conall Pederson: Wow.
Conall Pederson: And as I
Conall Pederson: Did you overdose.
What happened.
Conall Pederson: No, thank God never, I was pretty lucky to be honest. Yeah, but never overdosed. Okay, thank God. I don't know. I think they were 1015 micrograms eat. Okay.
Belis Aladag: But, but who knows
Conall Pederson: Yeah, I'm not exactly. Okay.
Belis Aladag: So okay, so that's what was going on with you throughout February as well.
Conall Pederson: Yeah, totally. Suck it, I think it was either the like very beginning of March, or a couple days into March that I ran out. So I had to stop.
Conall Pederson: Okay.
Belis Aladag: So what happened then, just like you went into withdrawal.
Conall Pederson: Yeah, okay.
Belis Aladag: You went into withdrawal and where I'm at. I yeah
Conall Pederson: Sorry, what were you asked.
Belis Aladag: I was just wondering where you live. I do you live with your
Conall Pederson: Parents like you
Conall Pederson: Yeah.
Belis Aladag: So did they notice you're like acting
Conall Pederson: Funny and
Conall Pederson: You know, oh yeah, they noticed that I was like really aggressive and kind of confrontational, which I'm not normally
Belis Aladag: Yeah, yeah. Okay, so that was early March.
Conall Pederson: Yeah. And then, um, but the lack of known made me rehab Xanax
Okay.
Conall Pederson: Which I have is, I'm having di have separate treatment for that my psychiatrist is take care of that.
Belis Aladag: So yeah, I have. So in California. We have a system where we can see are prescribed like
Conall Pederson: For sure.
Conall Pederson: Right, the controlled substances. I'm sure they suck looks at it too.
Belis Aladag: So is it Dr.
Allison.
Conall Pederson: Yeah.
Belis Aladag: Yeah so. So you said she's your psychiatrist and she
Conall Pederson: I saw that she must read
Belis Aladag: Diazepam some value.
Belis Aladag: Yeah, okay. So, and she's, she's helping you get off of Xanax, is that right
Conall Pederson: Yeah, he's helping me get off Xanax, it's a he. Yeah, he recommended me to you guys. Cuz I I messaged him about really bad opioid cravings and he had said they you guys could help with that.
Yeah, absolutely.
Belis Aladag: Okay, so here's the deal. We can definitely help you with this. Um,
Belis Aladag: There is a medication that helps you with cravings for opioids. It's a partial opioid itself.
Conall Pederson: Okay.
Belis Aladag: You pronounce morphine is the active agent buprenorphine and
Belis Aladag: It's a brand name is like Suboxone you may have
Conall Pederson: Heard of it right
Belis Aladag: So, so that's kind of the, the gold standard of treatment for this problem.
Belis Aladag: And
Belis Aladag: You know, even though for you. It's, it's like two months. And you know, it's kind of a short amount of time, but it was a very intense amount of time and you're already
Conall Pederson: Feeling
Belis Aladag: Things again and thinking about relapse and stuff. So I think I agree that it's
Belis Aladag: Important that you get on medication.
Belis Aladag: And then once time passes, I'm talking months, maybe, you know, we can see about, okay, how do you feel. Do you feel okay are you having any cravings.
Conall Pederson: Are you feeling like you're in a stable place.
Belis Aladag: And then we can slowly get you off of that.
Conall Pederson: For sure, that sounds great.
Belis Aladag: Yeah, okay.
Conall Pederson: Go. Yeah.
Belis Aladag: Okay, now
Belis Aladag: The thing with the Valium Xanax problem in the volume is because Suboxone
Conall Pederson: Is like
Conall Pederson: He warned me about that.
Conall Pederson: I've
Conall Pederson: Taken a lot of
Conall Pederson: Breath respiratory inhibitors. At the same time, and survived and not even come close to overdosing, so I think I'm going to be okay. Mm hmm.
Belis Aladag: Okay, so that's good to know. You know, but it's still a concern. Right.
Conall Pederson: So, and I also, I do have Narcan in my house.
Conall Pederson: You do in the event.
Conall Pederson: Of an emergency. Yeah.
Belis Aladag: So I was gonna say I could prescribe some nor can to have that around. But you have that
Conall Pederson: Yeah.
Belis Aladag: Okay, uh,
Belis Aladag: And
Belis Aladag: Your parents should be the ones that know
Conall Pederson: They haven't been there yet.
Conall Pederson: Yeah.
Belis Aladag: To spray in your nose. Yeah. Okay. Um, so the psychiatrist has you on the value for now.
Belis Aladag: Are you also on Depakote, or
Conall Pederson: That's just to maintain he's he's paranoid about me, seizing
Conall Pederson: From
Conall Pederson: From Xanax withdrawal. I've never had. But it's just you know like rather be so
Belis Aladag: The lactic okay cuz he's you told them, you're doing a lot of Xanax and
Belis Aladag: Yes, wanting to prevent you from going into a seizure from
Belis Aladag: Red, but he also has you on Diazepam so Diazepam would cover and
Yeah.
Conall Pederson: I think he's just doubling down to be safe. Okay.
Belis Aladag: So for now, you're taking the Depakote.
Conall Pederson: Yeah, twice.
Twice a day.
Belis Aladag: You do that and then and then that's it. And then the data pan five milligrams. How often are you
Taking
Conall Pederson: I take five milligrams in the morning and then I take
Conall Pederson: And then the take five at nine.
Conall Pederson: Pet three and 10 nine
Belis Aladag: got cut off there. I'm sorry.
Belis Aladag: See your regimen again.
Conall Pederson: Sorry. Yeah. So I take five milligrams at 910 milligrams that three and then 10 milligrams again at night. Okay.
Belis Aladag: 510 and 10
Conall Pederson: Yeah so 25 total. Okay.
Belis Aladag: And as he's going to be Taylor, we had
Conall Pederson: Taper you we have me on. We've already heard me for you down.
Belis Aladag: Okay. Okay, good. So yeah, so we have to be very, very careful.
Belis Aladag: With this, and yeah. Dr l said should know that you're going to start the Suboxone you should
Conall Pederson: She actually gave recommended it.
Conall Pederson: He said, because he said the other option was methadone, which could really be dangerous with the Valium. Correct. But he said, because
Conall Pederson: Suboxone and there's only a partial editor.
Conall Pederson: It's a lot safer in terms of interactions. He's correct
Belis Aladag: Okay, good. So it sounds like he knows what's going on and you're aware, and you're on a tapering. So that's the understanding is that you're eventually like getting off this Diazepam as well which is for your benefit.
Belis Aladag: Really being on sedatives like Xanax as a pan long term, not, not a good idea, you know,
Belis Aladag: How did you get started with that whole thing. Were you having anxiety when you were young, or you just
Conall Pederson: This one. Oh yeah, I have things it. I've always had anxiety it when we are undiagnosed until
Conall Pederson: About a year ago and I started, I mean on Xanax a cup junior year of high school I done Xanax, a couple of times, but not really. I was there, whatever, then the entire month of my senior year, I did.
Conall Pederson: And then I completely stopped doing them dearly like care for them. After that, then
Conall Pederson: I got a very large amount of them for free.
Conall Pederson: So I kind of was like, well,
Conall Pederson: So it's an anxiety med I have anxiety. My doctor and I was. I wasn't seeing a psychiatrist at the time I was only seeing doctors. So my doctors weren't giving the proper anxiety meds. So I was like, I'm going to self medicate, but I did way too much. I see.
Belis Aladag: And I see. Were you in on anything else in the past like you were on like SSRI like sertraline and some oh
Conall Pederson: Yeah, those have not really worked for me.
Conall Pederson: Those have made me pretty depressed, to be honest.
Belis Aladag: Okay, wow.
Belis Aladag: Yeah obstacle. Okay, so they didn't really work well in the lower mood. Yeah.
Belis Aladag: Okay, so that hasn't worked so so for you. I think it's going to be important.
Belis Aladag: Actually if Thursday's
Belis Aladag: Work for you. Thursday 4pm we can keep meeting.
Conall Pederson: Sounds perfect
Belis Aladag: On a weekly basis. And one of the things are grouped then. So it's a group and the therapist.
Conall Pederson: Was talking last time.
Belis Aladag: About like trying to find ways things that we think might help everybody anything anyone can use about like anxiety relief and things like that.
Belis Aladag: breathing techniques meditation techniques, things like this that you could use that are non medicinal like that are something you can do just no matter where you are.
Belis Aladag: Right. Um, so maybe that that Thursday group is a good fit for you.
Belis Aladag: Okay, so I'll put you in for the Thursday 4pm group.
Belis Aladag: So, so what I'll do is I can prescribe you the medication.
Belis Aladag: And
Belis Aladag: In terms of the amount. Now you've been off of everything the opioid since like march 3 or so.
Conall Pederson: I'd say 36 that range. Yeah, six. Okay, let's just say the six. Okay. So since the six
Belis Aladag: So, and you're having cravings.
Yeah.
Belis Aladag: So why don't we start with because honestly, the smaller the dose, the better for you, because again, long term, we want to get you off of medication.
Belis Aladag: Need to be on it.
Belis Aladag: So we can try a two milligram dose right and and see how that goes. If you're like, you know, the two milligrams is good, but I think I'm still having some sort of cravings.
Belis Aladag: You know, then we'll go up.
Belis Aladag: For sure. Now I think just do the two milligrams. Keep it simple.
Belis Aladag: Take it in the morning, you know, drink something before because it's
Belis Aladag: A sublingual tablet or a film.
Belis Aladag: Okay, depending on your insurance. Are you medical
Conall Pederson: No, I'm a Anthem Blue Cross.
Belis Aladag: Blue Cross. So then I think tablets would probably be covered fine either way if they both dissolve under your tongue.
Conall Pederson: Okay.
Belis Aladag: Have you ever taken this before.
Conall Pederson: Not okay
Belis Aladag: So yeah, so drink water. So your
Belis Aladag: Your moist. Right. And then you put this under your tongue and you let it melt and that's how it gets into your bloodstream. If you chew it or swallow it, it bypasses your system and you don't feel the effect. So you really want to put it under the tongue. Let it melt. I'm
Conall Pederson: Sure.
Belis Aladag: And then whatever's left over. Obviously you can swallow, but really keep it in there for like a few minutes, five minutes.
Belis Aladag: Um, so yeah do that first thing in the morning and then let's see. Let's see how it goes.
Belis Aladag: Do you have any general concerns about your health, like do you normally
Belis Aladag: Have fatigue or gastrointestinal problems or
Belis Aladag: Chest pain or shortness of breath.
Belis Aladag: None of that stuff.
No.
Conall Pederson: You smoke cigarettes I vapor
Belis Aladag: You, babe. Okay so beeping has its own troubles. You've heard about people have done ammonia and everything.
Belis Aladag: In there and stuff. So, you know, it's just something we can work on if you want to
Conall Pederson: Use
Belis Aladag: Nicotine replacements.
Conall Pederson: I tried a couple times. I'm okay on that for now. For now. Okay. Yeah.
Belis Aladag: In the future, if you want. We could do like laws and just some people like that better than the GM, you know, okay, work on that later. Um, anything else any surgeries and your past.
Conall Pederson: A tonsillectomy also like to me. Okay.
Belis Aladag: And how about family history. You mentioned your with your mom and dad anyone
Belis Aladag: Or grandparents or anyone with any substance abuse problems alcohol.
Conall Pederson: Personally
Sorry.
Conall Pederson: Probably alcoholism, but I don't drink personally
Belis Aladag: Okay, you don't drink, okay.
Conall Pederson: Okay, maybe you think I have like a couple times.
Belis Aladag: Okay, um, who who drink. Is it
Belis Aladag: Grandparents or
Conall Pederson: Parents or who's drink.
Conall Pederson: Okay.
Belis Aladag: So parents. Okay, what about on history of suicidal thoughts or
Belis Aladag: Any attempts or anything like that. Never.
Belis Aladag: You don't feel at risk for it.
Conall Pederson: No, no.
Belis Aladag: allergy to medication.
Conall Pederson: None that I'm aware of. Okay.
Belis Aladag: Okay, cool. So we bought all of that.
Belis Aladag: And you already have our can
Okay.
Conall Pederson: What else, what else. Okay, so should I take that
Conall Pederson: When I take that in the morning. Should I take that with like after I take my Valium or before I take my valley. Um, is there an order I should do that in that
Conall Pederson: I'm like safe.
Belis Aladag: You know it's gonna be in your system. It's a long acting substance so
Conall Pederson: Because the value is extended release extended release.
Belis Aladag: I mean, I would probably, I don't know. I would say take it before.
Okay.
Belis Aladag: You know, take it before and then continue regimen with the Valium.
Belis Aladag: And then keep the Narcan handy if you start falling asleep or it's like making you very sedated.
Conall Pederson: So that's
Belis Aladag: Not a good sign.
Belis Aladag: You know, and be around people, when you're
Belis Aladag: Taking it
For sure.
Belis Aladag: I just want you to be safe.
Belis Aladag: So, okay. And then, how often do you see Dr. Elson
Conall Pederson: Oh, once
Belis Aladag: Also once a week. Okay, are you seeing in virtually
Conall Pederson: Yeah. Right now I am because of that covered
Belis Aladag: Well, okay, great. Okay, doing that. Um, and then recovery activities. Have you ever, like been involved in anything like na or a or
Conall Pederson: Not okay
Belis Aladag: So we can talk more about that later.
Conall Pederson: When you get into a
Belis Aladag: group setting, I think, I think this is a good start for you getting on medication and then meeting a cohort of
Belis Aladag: People that are struggling with opioids mostly opioid problems.
Conall Pederson: And then, and then we will give you resources as we go on. For sure.
Belis Aladag: Especially with what's going on. I mean, everything is online because of what's going on so
Belis Aladag: There are meetings and things you can check out online but
Belis Aladag: For now, like if you can stick to your
Belis Aladag: Weekly, Dr. Elson visits and weekly visits with me and the group. I think that'll be good for you. And then there is a therapist, you're assigned to. So one on one with her as well. You could do
Belis Aladag: To help with the anxiety issue as
Belis Aladag: As your tapering off the data, Pam.
Conall Pederson: I think I'm good on that just because I have Dr. Allison. Okay. Yeah. Okay.
Belis Aladag: Alright so let me do that.
Belis Aladag: Okay, so I think I have everything I need in here in terms of your pharmacy.
Let's see.
That a prescription
Belis Aladag: Just throw in our candidates for kicks and see if it goes at Walgreens on Castro Street. Yeah, okay.
Conall Pederson: Is there a way you could see if there's a version of Narcan that's covered by my insurance because the last time it wasn't
Conall Pederson: $140 out of pocket.
Belis Aladag: Whoo. Yeah. So, so when you go I ORDERED, I ORDERED THE KIND that that's I would assume is covered
Belis Aladag: Okay, and so I ordered it. You don't have to buy it.
Conall Pederson: Trisha, but
Belis Aladag: When you go there, say, look, she ordered a nasal spray. I'm hoping it's covered. Can you check and it's actually the pharmacist that can really
Belis Aladag: Navigate that for you and see
Conall Pederson: If
Belis Aladag: They can say, oh, you know what this there's a different brand. I don't know of any but if there's a different brand or something that actually is covered, they can send a message to us, or you can call us right then and there, called a
Conall Pederson: Virtual clinic and say, Hey man, can you
Belis Aladag: Ask to ask the doctor to send this particular one.
Conall Pederson: For sure. Okay.
Conall Pederson: Sounds good. Okay.
Belis Aladag: So for now, we're going to do the tablet for you.
Belis Aladag: OK, so the data, Pam is a major risk, but we know that we're taking this risk we know it. We're gonna monitor you closely.
Belis Aladag: And you're going to be as safe as possible to understand that there's a risk of overdose. This
Conall Pederson: Yeah.
Belis Aladag: But, you know, like you said, I know. I mean, I know you're not alone in that people are like, oh yeah, oh you should do the things I've done and it's like, oh god I don't want to. No.
Conall Pederson: No, I, I'm kind of I think this might be on the lower end of risk of overdose for things
Belis Aladag: Okay, so
I'm
Conall Pederson: Not super worried
Belis Aladag: Please be safe, you know,
Conall Pederson: Glad you're doing this and
Belis Aladag: Getting help
Belis Aladag: And whoever you are getting these things from for free or what all your connections. I mean, that's one thing housekeeping item you're going to have to kind of hold yourself accountable to and just cut
Belis Aladag: Off contact. It's really hard to completely cut off with social media and all this stuff now but do your best and remember that it's no matter what. It's a business for people
Belis Aladag: Yeah, depending on your, you know, whatever. But at the end of the day it's a business people just want to make money. So you
Conall Pederson: Know, I've been. I've been on both ends of it. I understand how it works. Yeah. Okay, so one
Okay, so we're going to
Belis Aladag: Try this, and see how it helps you. You could also see if you find the one is really intense. You could try having it and saying one milligram in the morning and one
Conall Pederson: milligram later in the
Conall Pederson: Day. Okay, for sure. Okay. Should I take today's dose when I pick it up, or should I just wait till tomorrow.
Belis Aladag: Um,
Belis Aladag: I would just wait till tomorrow.
Belis Aladag: If you want to get into the routine because you want to have a steady amount in your bloodstream.
Belis Aladag: Right. Um, so wait till tomorrow morning and then start your routine.
Belis Aladag: See, let's see how it goes.
Conall Pederson: Sounds good. Okay.
Belis Aladag: Do this now. Okay, so I'm doing this for you.
Belis Aladag: You should be able to go there.
Belis Aladag: Now, and get it.
Conall Pederson: Awesome.
Belis Aladag: Is this place close to
Conall Pederson: Its yeah it's the one that has the best the one in my neighborhood never gets never has anything. So this is the best
Belis Aladag: Oh, I see. It's not the closest but it has the
Conall Pederson: Thing. Yeah, they have, they tend to have
Conall Pederson: Medications
All right, I just in this
Sure scripts thing. Okay, here this
Belis Aladag: Is
Belis Aladag: 1498. OK. So I'm going to send you an email as well, reminding you of your groups at 4pm on Thursdays.
Belis Aladag: I'm sure you should log into the virtual clinic, like you did today, like, try to get in half an hour before four o'clock because sometimes it gets booked and then it's hard for you to get in.
Conall Pederson: That
Conall Pederson: Go have to pick up the prescription
I'm sorry.
Conall Pederson: That might be tough for me to get to today, because I'm gonna have to go pick up the
Conall Pederson: Oh yeah, to already
Conall Pederson: And we'll get today.
Conall Pederson: lockdown basically
Belis Aladag: Yeah, yeah, don't worry. Next, next week.
Conall Pederson: You know for sure and then
Belis Aladag: There's some blood that you should do.
Conall Pederson: Um, yeah.
Conall Pederson: Next, like two to three weeks. Right.
Conall Pederson: Yeah, exactly, clinics,
Conall Pederson: In SF right now so. Oh, okay, yeah, we're gonna have to see when they open. I think they might be closed until I'll let you guys know on that.
Conall Pederson: They might be closed until May with this coven thing. Okay.
Belis Aladag: Let us know because your liver is what we would want to know is,
Conall Pederson: That, for sure.
Belis Aladag: And then, and then monthly, you will get a urine testing cup thing in the mail.
Belis Aladag: It's a manila don't open the envelope log into virtual clinic shown you got it and then open it so that they can see you're doing. It's like a witness test type
Conall Pederson: For sure. Okay.
Belis Aladag: And then it's not punitive is to help us to
Belis Aladag: Like if you're having trouble you're like, Okay, what are we gonna okay
Belis Aladag: Okay, Carl Fischer questions, any, any other thing.
Conall Pederson: Nope. All good.
Belis Aladag: Okay, okay, well, it's nice meeting you.
Belis Aladag: Thanks for sharing.
Belis Aladag: And then keep me posted on what's happening. Okay.
Conall Pederson: Well, thank you.
Bye bye.